Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Today, I would like to
answer a question from a friend regarding
the arrangement of a three-tiered altar. The question is as
follows: "I have been married for three years now, and recently
I learned about your shared teachings. I
have seen your instructions on arranging
altars, which are very beautiful, but my house currently
has a three-tiered altar, and I don't
know how to arrange it properly.
Could you please guide me and other women on
how to arrange a
three-tiered altar? Thank you, Madam." Respectfully, esteemed Dharma friends, a three-
tiered altar is very easy to arrange. If we
worship Buddha,
we can place a statue of
Shakyamuni Buddha here. If we worship three
statues of the Western Pure Land Triad (Amitabha Buddha, Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva, and
Mahasthamaprapta Bodhisattva), we place them on the
highest tier.
We also pray for statues
of that Buddha, so at the highest level, we shouldn't
worship too many Buddhas at once. If we
worship too many at once, it will be
very difficult to focus our minds. Therefore,
we should only place one statue of one
Buddha, and it will be much easier to focus our minds, dear fellow
practitioners. Or, the Western Pure Land Triad,
that is, Amitabha Buddha, Avalokiteshvara Buddha, and Mahasthamaprapta
Buddha. Because we have them in our hearts, they are in the Western Pure Land. Mahasthamaprapta and Avalokiteshvara
are two Bodhisattvas who are often
beside Amitabha Buddha, so it's much
easier to focus our minds. But if we place them like
this: on one side, Shakyamuni Buddha; on the
other, Ksitigarbha Bodhisattva; on the other, Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva; and
sometimes we even
add
another statue of Amitabha Buddha. Then, at that moment, our
minds will be in turmoil, thinking, "I'm bowing to this Buddha, but I've
forgotten to bow to that Buddha, this Bodhisattva,
and that Bodhisattva." Our minds will be very
confused because we still have worldly minds.
Sometimes, due to our attachment to appearances, we feel uneasy, dear
friends.
Therefore, on the highest level,
we place the
Buddha statue and Bodhisattva statue. On the second level,
we place the incense burner for
Buddha and other offerings. The
third level is like
this: for example, from where you
are facing Uncle Yen (let's consider this area
as the altar), the Buddha statue is
at the top, the
incense burner is here, and the bottom level
is the third. On
one side, we place the incense burner for
the celestial beings and gods, and on the other side,
we place the incense burner for our ancestors. On the
top level, we
place the Buddha statue, and we can
arrange lamps next to it. On the
incense burner level, we place offerings and
flowers. On the very bottom level,
we worship the spirits of our
ancestors.
Dear fellow devotees,
between the two incense burners,
we can arrange
cakes and water; it's up to us to place the
offerings. When
we have a ceremony,
we place the offerings for
Buddha (rice bowl and water cup) on the second level,
and offerings for the deity Ninh are placed in front of the incense burner for the deity Ninh. We place offerings for our
ancestors on the side where the incense burner is located. This is how
we arrange the
altar according to the three-tiered system.
Dear fellow devotees, today I am
guiding you on how to
arrange the altar for a family
with a three-tiered altar, so that you can
refer to it and share it with other
families who have a three-tiered altar for Buddha, the deity
Ninh, and the ancestral spirits. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni [music] [Applause] [music
]
[Applause]
[music]